                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  In the United Kingdom an unsupervised or public area should have a TADR of
                  less than 0.5 mSv·h–1 with a maximum IDR of 7.5 mSv·h–1 [6]. Dividing the
                  chosen design dose limit by the calculated value of dose at the end of the maze
                  will give the attenuation required in a door. The data to determine the required
                  TVL of lead are tabulated in Table 4. If a protected door is not required it is
                  still recommended to have a physical barrier at the maze entrance such as a
                  gate to discourage entry. Also, it is recommended that 60Co unit installations
                  should have lockable doors so that access may be restricted outside normal
                  hours of use (see also Section 3.11).                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  5.6. NEUTRONS IN HIGH ENERGY LINEAR ACCELERATOR                 
                     ROOMS                                                        
                                                                                  
                     Neutron production becomes important in high energy medical linear
                  accelerators (linacs) above 10 MV. Photoneutrons are produced when photons
                  interact with the collimators, the target, the flattening filter and other material
                  along the path of the electron and the photon beam. The lead, tungsten, and
                  other high atomic number (Z) materials in the head are effective photon
                  shields, but not for neutrons. Although, due to (n, 2n) and (n, p) interactions,
                  and other inelastic scattering, the heavy metals do provide shielding effects by
                  lowering the average energy of the neutrons.                    
                     The neutron fluence at any point in the room is composed of direct
                  neutrons j , scattered neutrons j , and thermal neutrons j . McCall et al. [23]
                        d            sc              th                           
                  have shown that the direct neutron fluence is given by:         
                                                                                  
                          Q                                                       
                     j =   N                                  (19)                
                      d  4pd2                                                     
                  where                                                           
                                                                                  
                     d  is the distance from the source to the point of interest. 
                     Q  is the apparent neutron source strength in number of neutrons
                      N                                                           
                        emitted from the shielded accelerator head per unit dose of photon
                        delivered to the isocentre. Q is related to the neutron source
                                          N                                       
                        strength Q, and is equal to Q for head shielded with lead, and 0.85Q
                        for the head shielded with tungsten.                      
                     The scatter neutron fluence is given by:                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  34                                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  