                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  accelerator. In this case, d should be measured from the gun end of the wave
                                 s                                                
                  guide to the point just outside this secondary barrier since this barrier will be
                  subjected to leakage radiation from the vicinity of the gun. In this example, it is
                  assumed that the protection in the treatment head reduces the leakage
                  radiation to 1/1000 of the useful beam (0.1%).                  
                     Leakage radiation has significantly lower energy than that of the primary
                  beam due to scattering inside the treatment head, as demonstrated by the TVL
                  data in Table 4.                                                
                  5.2.2. Scattered radiation                                      
                                                                                  
                     The required barrier transmission (B ) needed to shield against radiation
                                           p                                      
                  scattered by the patient is given in Ref. [2] and in Eq. (9):   
                          Pd2 d2                                                  
                     B =   sca sec                             (9)                
                      p aWT(F 400)                                                
                                                                                  
                  where                                                           
                                                                                  
                     P, W and T have the same meaning as in Eq. (8).              
                     d  is the distance from the radiation source to the patient, in m.
                      sca                                                         
                     d  is the distance from the patient to the point of interest, in m.
                      sec                                                         
                     a  is the scatter fraction defined at d . The scatter primary ratio (a) is
                                            sca                                   
                        dependent on the energy of the X ray beam and the scattering angle.
                        These data are tabulated per 400 cm2 of irradiated field area for 60Co,
                        6, 10, 18 and 24 MV X ray beams in Table 5 [2, 20].       
                     F  is the field area incident on the patient, in cm2.        
                     Radiation scattered by a patient or phantom is usually less than 0.1% of
                  the incident radiation per 0.1 m2 area irradiated. For large scatter angles, the
                  energy of the scattered radiation will be degraded and the protection designed
                  against leakage radiation should provide adequate protection against scattered
                  radiation from the patient. However, when the scatter angle is small, patient
                  scatter should not be ignored. For small scatter angles (10∞), the value of the
                  scatter fraction a may be as high as 0.0178 for 24 MV X rays (Table 5) and the
                  scattered photons have energies close to that of the incident beam.
                     The barrier transmission factor (B ) needed to shield against scattered
                                          w                                       
                  radiation when the primary beam strikes a wall is given by the following
                  equation:                                                       
                  24                                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  