                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  This equation is applicable whether the gantry rotation axis is parallel or
                  perpendicular to the maze axis (see Eqs (13) and (16)). Where the maze wall is
                  a primary barrier this contribution should be negligible.       
                     There is a special case when the gantry rotation axis is perpendicular to
                  the maze axis, the room has a moderately long maze and the use factor can be
                  assumed as 0.25 for the four major beam directions. The total photon dose at
                  the maze entrance will be the product of 2.64 and the sum of the doses for the
                  worst case scenario. In Fig. 4, this will be when the beam is directed at wall H.
                  (Note that the use factor 0.25 should be applied to all four components,
                  including the leakage dose D .)                                 
                                   LH                                             
                           (                 )                                    
                     D =2.64 D +f ¥D +D  +D                   (18)                
                      d      pH    wH  LH  TH                                     
                  where                                                           
                     f is the patient transmission factor described earlier in this section and
                       tabulated in Table 8.                                      
                                                                                  
                     In the United Kingdom, the IDR at the maze entrance for each gantry
                  angle would be calculated. This is achieved by substituting the dose rate DR at
                                                               0                  
                  1 m (usually the isocentre) for the workload (W), use factor (U) and occupancy
                  (T) in the above equations. The suitability of the maze design would be
                  assessed on the IDR for the worst case scenario. The aim would be to reduce
                  the IDR at the maze entrance to 7.5 mSv·h–1or less for the worst case.
                     The methods described in this section are also valid for accelerators with
                  energies greater than 10 MV. However, the presence of photoneutrons and
                  capture gammas must also be taken into account and this is described in
                  Section 5.7.                                                    
                                                                                  
                  5.5. DOORS                                                      
                                                                                  
                     Once the dose at the end of the maze has been calculated the necessity or
                  otherwise of a door for radiation safety purposes can be ascertained. This will
                  depend on the design dose limit in force. In the United Kingdom the guidance
                  [6] is to designate the area as controlled if the IDR exceeds 7.5 mSv·h–1, and as
                  supervised if the TADR is less than 7.5 mSv·h–1 with a maximum IDR of
                  500 mSv·h–1. For a controlled area the annual design dose limit is 6 mSv per year
                  in the United Kingdom [7] or, in the USA, the NCRP recommends a fraction of
                  10 mSv per year [9]. For a public area the design dose limit is 0.3 mSv per year in
                  the United Kingdom and the NCRP recommends 1 mSv per year in the USA [10].
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                               33                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  