                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                     Fast neutrons are attenuated efficiently by materials with high hydrogen
                  content. Concrete has a relatively high hydrogen content (water content is
                  4–5% by weight) and the TVL of 0.34 MeV photoneutrons in concrete is about
                  210 mm. This is about half the value of TVL in concrete for high energy X rays
                  (10–25 MeV), which is 400–500 mm. Therefore, if the shielding is adequate for
                  photons it will also be adequate for neutrons. However, although different
                  densities of concrete affect the photon transmission they do not affect the
                  transmission of neutrons so a TVL of 210 mm in concrete must be used
                  regardless of its density. The neutron leakage specifications of all major
                  medical linear accelerators are below 2–3 mSv per isocentre photon Gy, and
                  the photon leakage specification used in room shielding calculations is 1 mGy
                  per isocentre photon Gy (0.1%). Therefore, as long as the concrete shielding
                  designed for photon leakage protection is at least one TVL, the same shielding
                  will attenuate the neutron leakage to below the level of photon leakage.
                     If heavy metal or high atomic number (Z) materials are used for room
                  shielding, adequate photon shielding does not automatically imply adequate
                  neutron shielding. If lead or iron are incorporated in all or part of the shielding,
                  a moderator material will be necessary to capture the neutrons slowed down in
                  the metal. Careful evaluation for neutron shielding must be performed to
                  ensure safety. This evaluation may be complex and is outside the scope of this
                  report. The reader should seek expert advice.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  5.7. CAPTURE GAMMA AND NEUTRON DOSES AT THE MAZE                
                     ENTRANCE                                                     
                                                                                  
                     A typical linear accelerator treatment room utilizes a maze design to
                  reduce the dose at the outer entrance so that heavy door shielding is not
                  necessary. This is particularly important for high energy accelerators above
                  10 MV because of scatter neutrons and the capture gamma photons generated
                  by neutrons interacting with the maze door and the maze walls.  
                     The dose at the outer maze entrance may be obtained by evaluating the
                  three major components: the scatter and leakage photon dose, the capture
                  gamma dose, and the neutron dose.                               
                     The scatter and leakage photon dose may be estimated using methods
                  described in Section 5.4. This is the most significant component for accelerators
                  with energy lower than 10 MV. For higher accelerator energies the capture
                  gamma and neutron dose components dominate as they increase rapidly with
                  accelerator energy.                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  36                                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  