                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    140 / APPENDIX C                                                
                                                                                    
                    (Simpkin, 1996a), with total workload per patient (W ) equal to 
                                                      norm                          
                    the average workload per patient reported by the survey. The    
                    unshielded secondary air kerma is seen to be due almost exclu-  
                    sively to scattered radiation. It is, however, anticipated that beam
                    hardening in the barrier will substantially increase the contribu-
                    tion of leakage radiation to the air kerma in the shielded area, so it
                    is prudent to not ignore leakage radiation in a shielding calculation.
                      The ratio of the secondary air kerma behind a barrier of thick-
                    ness x to the unshielded secondary air kerma, defines the second-
                    ary transmission B (x):                                         
                                sec                                                 
                                        K (x)                                       
                                   B (x) = -----s--e--c--------. (C.11)             
                                   sec  K (0)                                       
                                         sec                                        
                      Figures C.2 through C.7 show the transmission of secondary    
                    radiation through lead, concrete, gypsum wallboard, steel, plate
                    glass, and wood for the surveyed clinical workload distributions
                    inTable 4.2.14 The fitting parameters of the transmission curves in
                    Figures C.2 through C.7 to Equation A.2 are given in Table C.1. 
                    These curves assume 90 degree scattered radiation, that the trans-
                    mission of scattered radiation matches that of the primary beam,
                    and that distance d = d . Note that the choice of 90 degree scat-
                                 S  L                                               
                    tered radiation is conservatively safe, in that, the scatter fraction
                    at 90 degrees is relatively small leading to a smaller scattered radi-
                    ation contribution to the secondary air kerma. The secondary    
                    transmission will be greater with the low value of the scattered
                    radiation fraction, since the more penetrating leakage radiation
                    will have a greater contribution to the secondary air kerma. At low
                    (<100 kVp) operating potentials, the leakage radiation contribution
                    through the tube housing is negligible so that the secondary trans-
                    mission is little different from the primary transmission. At higher
                    potentials, the increased penetration of leakage radiation makes
                    the secondary transmission exceed the primary. This is most     
                    pronounced for lead and steel. For 100 kVp x rays, the secondary
                    transmission through a typical 1.58 mm (1/16 inch) lead barrier 
                    exceeds the primary transmission by 50 percent.                 
                      Given knowledge of the secondary air kerma per patient (or    
                    known workload per patient W ) and the secondary transmis-      
                                        norm                                        
                    sion, a simple shielding protocol for secondary radiations may be
                    developed. The unshielded secondary air kerma at 1 m for N      
                    patients (or equivalently, total workload per week W ) is:      
                                                     tot                            
                      14The data given in Figures C.2 through C.7 for Peripheral Angiogra-
                    phy also apply to Neuroangiography.                             
                                                                                    