                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        4.1 CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY / 37           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                        Fig. 4.1. The workload distribution Rad Room (floor or other barriers)
                      obtained from the AAPM-TG9 survey (Simpkin, 1996a) for the x-ray beam
                      directed at the floor of a radiographic room compared to the workload
                      distribution assuming all exposures are made at 100 kVp.      
                                                                                    
                      bucky) and Rad Room (floor or other barriers) distributions. This
                      latter distribution describes exposures directed at the floor,
                      cross-table wall, and any other beam orientations.            
                        Separating the workload into these two barrier-specific distri-
                      butions provides a more accurate description of the intensity and
                      penetrating ability of the radiation directed at primary barriers.
                      Therefore, it is not necessary to use the Rad Room (all barriers)
                      workload distribution for primary beam calculations; it will only be
                      used for secondary barrier shielding calculations.            
                        The actual workload distribution for a given x-ray room will
                      vary from those given in Table 4.2. It will also vary from facility to
                      facility and even from week to week in the same facility. However,
                      the average distribution obtained from the survey represents a
                      more realistic model of x-ray use than the single kVp approxima-
                      tion. It also is independent of the number of patients examined
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    