                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                              C.4 THE GENERAL CASE / 145            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                        Fig. C.6. Transmission of secondary radiation through plate glass
                      (data as in Figure C 2).                                      
                                                                                    
                         3. take the ratio of P/T to the total unshielded air kerma as
                           the required barrier transmission, and                   
                         4. from the most penetrating of the transmission curves for
                           the x-ray sources in the room, graphically estimate the  
                           barrier thickness required to give this transmission.    
                                                                                    
                      This procedure will generally be conservatively safe, and will prove
                      accurate if the transmission curves of the various x-ray sources are
                      similar.                                                      
                        A useful, although computationally more intensive, technique is
                      to find by iteration the barrier thickness that decreases the sum
                      ofthe transmitted air kerma contributions to P/T. Consider two
                      test barrier thicknesses x and x , for which the total transmitted
                                       1   2                                        
                      air kerma has been calculated to be K and K , respectively. Assume
                                              1    2                                
                      x and x bound the solution such that, x < x and K > P/T > K . 
                       1    2                    1  2    1      2                   
                      From the shape of the transmission curves, it is reasonable to use
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    