                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        4.1 CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY / 33           
                                                                                    
                      patient has been divided into two components. These components
                      represent the division of the total workload per patient (as well as
                      its kVp distribution) between the x-ray table and the chest bucky
                      for the “average patient” in the survey. It is therefore unnecessary
                      to separately specify the number of patients undergoing chest 
                      examinations. Rather the same value of N should be used for both
                      the chest bucky and x-ray table calculations, since the fraction of
                      patients who receive examinations on the x-ray table or at the chest
                      bucky is already accounted for by the value of the workload per
                      patient for each image receptor. This methodology also renders
                      unnecessary the incorporation of a fractional use factor for the pri-
                      mary beam against the chest bucky (i.e., U = 1) when using the Rad
                      Room (chest bucky) workload distribution with the same value of N
                      as is used for all of the calculations for that room. These concepts
                      are demonstrated in Sections 5.3 and 5.4.                     
                        At a given x-ray tube operating potential and a given distance,
                      the air kerma at a given reference point from the primary beam is
                      directly proportional to the workload.                        
                        Traditional shielding methods have assumed that a conserva- 
                      tively high total workload per week is performed at a single high
                      operating potential, for example, 1,000 mA min week–1 at 100 kVp.
                      This assumption ignores the fact that the medical imaging     
                      workload is spread over a wide range of operating potentials. For
                      example, in a general purpose radiographic room, extremity exam-
                      inations (typically about one-third of the total examinations done
                      in the room) are normally performed at about 50 to 60 kVp, abdom-
                      inal examinations at about 70 to 80 kVp, and chest examinations
                      at >100 kVp, but with a very low tube current-time (milliampere-
                      minutes) product.                                             
                        For shielding design, the distribution of workload as a function
                      of kVp is much more important than the magnitude of the workload
                      since the attenuation properties of barriers exhibit a strong kVp
                      dependence. For example, the radiation level on the protected side
                      of a 1 mm lead barrier varies exponentially with kVp (three orders
                      of magnitude over the range of 60 to 100 kVp), whereas it varies
                      only linearly with the workload. Leakage radiation from the x-ray
                      tube housing shows an even more dramatic change with kVp,     
                      decreasing by more than eight orders of magnitude over the range
                      from 150 to 50 kVp.                                           
                        Simpkin (1996a) published the results of a nationwide survey
                      measuring the kVp distribution of workload and use factors using
                      data provided by the American Association of Physicists in Medi-
                      cine (AAPM) Diagnostic X-Ray Imaging Committee Task Group     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    