                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    32 / 4. COMPUTATION OF SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS                   
                                                                                    
                    of the x-ray facility should normally be considered as fully occupied
                    (T = 1), regardless of the nature of the adjacent interior area, since
                    these areas are subject to change in function without the knowl-
                    edge or control of the x-ray facility. This is also applicable to adja-
                    cent space for which future occupancy is anticipated. This does not
                    apply to the grounds of an adjacent building where fractional occu-
                    pancy factors may be utilized.                                  
                                                                                    
                    4.1.4 Workload and Workload Distribution                        
                                                                                    
                      The workload (W) of a medical imaging x-ray tube is the time  
                    integral of the x-ray tube current over a specified period and is con-
                    ventionally given in units of milliampere-minutes. The most com-
                    mon period of time in which the workload is specified is one week.
                    However, it is also useful to define the normalized workload (W )
                                                            norm                    
                    as the average workload per patient. Note that W may include    
                                                    norm                            
                    multiple exposures depending on the type of radiographic examina-
                    tion and clinical goal. The product of W and the average number 
                                            norm                                    
                    of patients per week (N) is the total workload per week (W ):   
                                                         tot                        
                                    W = N W .               (4.1)                   
                                     tot  norm                                      
                      It is important to distinguish between the number of patients 
                    examined in a week (N) as used in this Report [on which is based
                    the average workload per patient (W ) from the AAPM survey      
                                            norm                                    
                    (Simpkin, 1996a)] and the number of “examinations” performed in 
                    a given x-ray room. An “examination” refers to a specific x-ray 
                    procedure (as defined by a uniform billing or current procedural
                    terminology code). A single patient may receive several such    
                    “examinations” while in the x-ray room and that may even involve
                    more than one image receptor (e.g., both the image receptor associ-
                    ated with the x-ray table and the one associated with the chest 
                    bucky). Although this may produce a notable patient-to-patient  
                    workload variance, the average workload per patient for each room
                    type is likely to be close to the W values of the AAPM survey.  
                                          norm                                      
                    The designer should be aware that workload information provided 
                    by facility administrators stated in terms of a weekly number of
                    “examinations” or “patient examinations” is not the proper value to
                    use for N (and may be several times larger than N). Values of N 
                    that may be used for various types of x-ray rooms as a guide, if the
                    actual value of N is not available, are provided later is this Section.
                      For a radiographic room, some patients are examined using     
                    both the x-ray table and chest bucky, and the average workload per
                                                                                    