                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    30 / 4. COMPUTATION OF SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS                   
                                                                                    
                    average of 1 h week–1 in that area (while the x-ray beam is acti-
                    vated) every week for a year. A factor of 1/40 would certainly be con-
                    servatively safe for most outdoor areas used only for pedestrian or
                    vehicular traffic (e.g., sidewalks, streets, vehicular drop-off areas,
                    or lawn areas with no benches or seating). The occupancy factor for
                    an area is not the fraction of the time that it is occupied by any
                    persons, but rather is the fraction of the time it is occupied by the
                    single person who spends the most time there. Thus, an unattended
                    waiting room might be occupied at all times during the day, but 
                    have a very low occupancy factor since no single person is likely to
                    spend >50 h y–1 in a given waiting room. Occupancy factors in   
                    uncontrolled areas will rarely be determined by visitors to the facil-
                    ity or its environs who might be there only for a small fraction of a
                    year. The maximally exposed individuals will normally be employ-
                    ees of the facility itself or residents or employees of an adjacent
                    facility. For example, if a staff member typically spent 4 h d–1 in a
                    room a physician uses for patient examinations, the resulting occu-
                    pancy factor would be one-half.                                 
                      In some cases, a clinic may plan to operate radiographic equip-
                    ment longer than a normal work day. Two common examples are a   
                    radiographic room in an emergency department and a CT facility. 
                    The workload utilized should be that which occurs during the pri-
                    mary work shift, since the maximally exposed individuals are those
                    working during that shift. For example, the primary 40 h work shift
                    may occur from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., 5 d week–1.                    
                      Note that the use of T less than one allows the average air   
                    kerma in a partially occupied area to be higher than that for a 
                    fully-occupied area by a factor of T–1.                         
                      The qualified expert should make reasonable and realistic     
                    assumptions concerning occupancy factors, since each facility will
                    have its own particular circumstances. For example, an outdoor  
                    area that has benches where employees can eat lunch will have an
                    occupancy factor influenced by the climate of the locale. It must be
                    stressed that the occupancy factors in Table 4.1 are general guid-
                    ance values that may be utilized if more detailed information on
                    occupancy is not available. The designer of a new facility should,
                    however, keep in mind that the function of adjacent areas may   
                    change over time. For example, a storage room may be converted  
                    into an office without anyone reconsidering the adequacy of the 
                    existing shielding, particularly if the conversion is made in an adja-
                    cent uncontrolled area.                                         
                      Care must also be taken when assigning a low occupancy factor 
                    to an uncontrolled area such as a corridor immediately adjacent to
                    an x-ray room. The actual limitation for shielding design may be a
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    