                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        4.1 CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY / 45           
                                                                                    
                      appropriate rests with the qualified expert. The qualified expert
                      should realize, in any case, that the probability of the primary
                      beam not being intercepted either by the patient or bucky hard-
                      ware is small.                                                
                                                                                    
                      4.1.7 Secondary Barriers                                      
                                                                                    
                        A secondary barrier is one that limits the air kerma from scat-
                      tered and leakage radiations generated by the radiographic unit to
                      the appropriate shielding design goal or less. The scattered radia-
                      tion component is due to photons scattered by the patient and other
                      objects in the path of the primary x-ray beam. The intensity of
                      thescattered radiation increases with the intensity and area of the
                      useful beam. Leakage radiation is that created at the x-ray tube
                      anode and transmitted through the tube housing and the collima-
                      tor outside of the useful beam area. Manufacturers are currently
                      required by regulation to limit the leakage radiation to      
                      0.876mGyh–1 air kerma (100 mR h–1 exposure) at 1 m (FDA,      
                      2003a). Compliance with this requirement is evaluated using the
                      maximum operating potential and the maximum beam current at   
                      that potential for continuous x-ray tube operation.           
                        Figure 4.3 illustrates the relationship of the x-ray source and
                      patient to the secondary barrier and defines the symbols represent-
                      ing the distances important to secondary barrier calculations.
                      4.1.7.1 Leakage Radiation. The air kerma from leakage radia-  
                      tioncan be estimated by first assuming that the leakage radiation
                      intensity with no housing matches that of the primary beam. At a
                      typical set of leakage radiation technique factors of 150 kVp and
                      3.3mA, the x-ray tube housing thickness required to reduce leak-
                      age radiation to the regulatory limit given above is equivalent to
                      2.3mm of lead. The exposure-weighted workload in each kVp inter-
                      val of the clinical workload distribution is then attenuated by this
                      equivalent lead thickness and summed to provide the unshielded
                      leakage air kerma per patient at 1 m and is given in Table 4.7. For
                      equipment with maximum operating potentials below 150 kVp, the
                      equivalent x-ray tube housing thickness may be <2.3 mm of lead,
                      but the unshielded secondary air kerma can still be determined
                      using the kVp-specific data in Table 4.7. Since the leakage radia-
                      tion is significantly hardened by the tube housing, penetration
                      through structural shielding barriers is computed using the   
                      asymptotic half-value layer (HVL) at high attenuation, or the cor-
                      responding attenuation coefficient α, which may be obtained from
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    