                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    34 / 4. COMPUTATION OF SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS                   
                                                                                    
                    No. 9 (AAPM TG9). Workload distributions were determined at 14  
                    medical institutions involving approximately 2,500 patients and 
                    seven types of radiology installations. Values for the kVp distribu-
                    tion of workload in 5 kVp intervals for each type of installation are
                    reported in Table 4.2. These distributions form the basis of a theo-
                    retical model that will be used in this Report. Figure 4.1 compares
                    the workload distribution from the survey for the primary x-ray 
                    beam directed at the floor of a radiographic room [i.e., Rad Room
                    (floor or other barriers)] with the single 100 kVp “spike” that results
                    from the assumption that all exposures are made at the same kVp.
                      The surveyed clinical workload distributions are specific for a
                    given type of radiological installation. They will be referred to as:
                      (cid:127) Rad Room (all barriers) (used only for secondary barriers)
                      (cid:127) Rad Room (chest bucky)                              
                      (cid:127) Rad Room (floor or other barriers)                  
                      (cid:127) Fluoroscopy Tube (R&F room)                         
                      (cid:127) Rad Tube (R&F room)                                 
                      (cid:127) Chest Room                                          
                      (cid:127) Mammography Room                                    
                      (cid:127) Cardiac Angiography                                 
                      (cid:127) Peripheral Angiography9                             
                                                                                    
                    where “Rad Room” indicates a room with radiographic equipment   
                    only, and “R&F room” refers to a room that contains both radio- 
                    graphic and fluoroscopic equipment.                             
                      The workload distribution designated Rad Room (all barriers)  
                    was measured by the AAPM-TG9 survey (Simpkin, 1996a) for all    
                    exposures made in standard radiography rooms which contained a  
                    chest bucky and radiographic table but no fluoroscopy capability.
                    This may be broken into the workload directed solely toward the 
                    chest bucky and that directed toward all other barriers in the room.
                    There is a significant difference between these two distributions;
                    imaging is performed with the chest bucky typically using higher
                    operating potentials (often >100 kVp) compared with radiation   
                    fields directed toward other barriers in the room. Note that the
                    bulk of the Rad Room (floor or other barriers) workload distribution
                    is significantly below 100 kVp. The Rad Room (all barriers) work-
                    load distribution describes all radiation exposures produced in the
                    radiographic room. It is composed of the sum of Rad Room (chest 
                      9In this Report, the workload distributions for Peripheral Angiography
                    also apply to Neuroangiography.                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    