                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    44 / 4. COMPUTATION OF SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS                   
                                                                                    
                    cassette holders significantly reduce the intensity of primary radi-
                    ation incident on the barrier. The attenuation provided by this 
                    imaging hardware can be expressed as an equivalent thickness of 
                    a shielding material. This equivalent thickness of “preshielding”
                    material is designated x . Table 4.6 shows the minimum equiva-  
                                    pre                                             
                    lent value of x that may be used with any of the workload distri-
                             pre                                                    
                    butions in Table 4.2 for table or wall-mounted cassette holders, or
                    for the grid and cassette.                                      
                      If the qualified expert confirms that these image receptors are
                    present in the beam, the net structural barrier required may be 
                    determined by subtracting x from the computed total primary     
                                       pre                                          
                    barrier thickness obtained by assuming that the raw primary beam
                    impinges directly on the barrier.                               
                      However, the use of preshielding material should be carefully 
                    evaluated by the qualified expert to ensure that it is applicable to
                    the barrier under consideration. For table radiography with the 
                    beam directed at the floor, the use of preshielding is normally 
                    appropriate (Sutton and Williams, 2000). In some cases, however,
                    it may be prudent to ignore the preshielding. For example, in   
                    cross-table lateral examinations the beam may not always be fully
                    collimated to the patient and cassette. A chest receptor in some
                    small clinics may consist only of a wall mounted cassette holder
                    which will not contain all of the associated chest-bucky hardware
                    listed in Table 4.6. The examples given in Section 5 show computa-
                    tions of barrier requirements with and without preshielding for 
                    completeness. The decision on whether the use of preshielding is
                      TABLE 4.6—Equivalent thickness of primary beam preshielding (x
                                                           pre                      
                                                            )                       
                                     (Dixon, 1994).a,b                              
                                                  x (in mm)                         
                                                   pre                              
                             Application                                            
                                              Lead Concrete Steel                   
                     Image receptor in radiographic table 0.85 72 7                 
                     or wall-mounted cassette holder                                
                     (attenuation by grid, cassette, and                            
                     image-receptor supporting structures)                          
                     Cross-table lateral (attenuation by 0.3 30 2                   
                     grid and cassette only)                                        
                      aSince patient attenuation is ignored, potential variations in image-receptor
                     attenuation from different manufacturers is not a significant factor.
                      bCaveats for the use of preshielding are discussed in Section 4.1.6.2.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    