                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                       5.7 BONE MINERAL DENSITY UNITS / 101         
                                                                                    
                      5.6.3 Cautionary Notes                                        
                                                                                    
                        Several notes of caution regarding CT shielding design are in
                      order here. Attempting to utilize a workload expressed in mA min
                      week–1 is not recommended. This is because a multi-slice scanner
                      acquiring a 2 cm total slice width per rotation will require only
                      one-half of the mA min week–1 of a single-slice scanner acquiring a
                      1 cm width, but the scattered air kerma will be approximately the
                      same.                                                         
                        Finally, regardless of the methodology ultimately used, it is
                      essential that the qualified expert stay abreast of the rapidly
                      changing developments in CT imaging and consider future       
                      advances to ensure that the required degree of radiation protection
                      is achieved both in the short and the long term.              
                                                                                    
                                5.7 Bone Mineral Density Units                      
                            (Dual Energy X-Ray Absorption Scanners)                 
                        Bone densitometry x-ray units utilize dual energy x-ray absorp-
                      tion. The spine and hip (femur) or both hips of the patient are
                      typically scanned either with a narrowly collimated x-ray fan beam
                      or a pencil beam which emanates from under the table and which
                      is intercepted by an over-table detector or detector array. Some
                      units are also capable of making lateral exposures. In either case,
                      only scattered radiation from the patient is relevant for shielding
                      purposes. The x-ray tube is switched between a high- and a low-kVp
                      during the scan (e.g., 140 and 70 kVp), and the beam is heavily
                      filtered.                                                     
                        A fan beam scanner may generate scattered air-kerma rates of
                      up to 0.04 mGy h–1 at 1 m, whereas the scattered radiation rates for
                      pencil beam scanners are around 2 × 10–3 mGy h–1. However, scan
                      acquisition times are generally shorter for fan beam units. The
                      manufacturers generally provide scattered radiation rates at 1 m
                      and typical scan times for various examinations (e.g., hip, spine,
                      whole body, and forearm).                                     
                         Example: The manufacturer of a fan beam unit states        
                         that the scattered air-kerma rate at 1 m is <0.04 mGy h–1  
                         and that a spine and hip scan can each be done in 15 s. If 
                         a facility is planning to examine 60 patients per week     
                         with both a spine and hip scan being performed on each     
                         patient (0.5 h scan time per week), then the air kerma at  
                         1 m is <0.02 mGy week–1. This is below the shielding       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    