                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      Appendix       C                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           Computation         of                                   
                                                                                    
                           Secondary        Barrier                                 
                                                                                    
                           Thickness                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                        Secondary radiation is an unavoidable consequence of the pri-
                      mary x-ray beam. Barriers that are otherwise never struck by the
                      primary beam must therefore serve as adequate shields against 
                      scattered and leakage radiations. In some x-ray imaging situations,
                      regulations require the primary beam to be completely intercepted
                      by an absorbing barrier behind or incorporated into the image 
                      receptor. This is the case for operation of an image intensifier and
                      dedicated mammography systems. The air kerma to an occupied   
                      area from primary radiation for these cases is thus assumed to
                      benegligible and only scattered and leakage radiations will need
                      tobe considered.                                              
                                  C.1 Scattered Radiation                           
                        The intensity of x rays scattered off the patient is dependent on
                      the scattering angle θ (defined from the direction of the center of
                      the primary beam to a ray pointing to the occupied area), the num-
                      ber of primary photons incident on the patient, the primary beam
                      photon energy, and the location of the x-ray beam on the patient. It
                      is assumed that the number of primary photons incident on the 
                      patient varies linearly with the x-ray beam field size. Thus for fixed
                      kVp, mAs, and collimator jaw opening, the scattered radiation 
                      intensity is independent of the distance from the primary x-ray
                      source to the patient.                                        
                        Trout and Kelley (1972) made a series of widely accepted radio-
                      graphic scattered radiation measurements 100 cm from the center
                      of a phantom which were then related to the primary air kerma at
                      1 m. This ratio of scattered to primary air kerma, when divided by
                      the primary beam field size at 1 m primary distance, defines the
                      scatter fraction (a ). Unfortunately, the filtration of the x-ray
                                   1                                                
                                          135                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    