                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        4.1 CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY / 41           
                                                                                    
                      the chest bucky is attached) may serve as primary barriers to some
                      fraction U of the Rad Room (floor or other barriers) workload dis-
                      tribution. The primary beam use factors measured by the       
                      AAPM-TG9 survey (Simpkin, 1996a) applicable to the Rad Room   
                      (floor or other barriers) workload distribution are shown in  
                      Table4.4. For convenience, the qualified expert may choose to 
                      round these values up to unity for the floor and 0.1 for the  
                      cross-table wall. Note that the ceiling and control booth are gener-
                      ally considered secondary barriers in a radiographic room. The
                      AAPM-TG9 survey (Simpkin, 1996a) observed U = 0 for those bar-
                      riers. Since the image-receptor assemblies for mammography and
                      image-intensified fluoroscopy act as a primary beam stop, U = 0
                      forthose applications, and only secondary radiation need be   
                      considered.                                                   
                      4.1.6 Primary Barriers                                        
                                                                                    
                        A primary barrier is one designed to attenuate the primary  
                      beam to the shielding design goal. Primary protective barriers are
                      found in radiographic rooms, dedicated chest installations and
                      radiographic/fluoroscopic rooms. Primary barriers include the por-
                      tion of the wall on which the vertical cassette holder or “chest-
                      bucky” assembly is mounted, the floor, and those walls toward 
                      which the primary beam may occasionally be directed. Figure 4.3
                      illustrates the relationship of the x-ray source and patient to the
                      primary barrier and shows the primary distance d measured from
                                                      P                             
                      the source to 0.3 m beyond the barrier.                       
                       TABLE 4.4–Primary beam use factors (U) for a general radiographic room
                          determined from the survey of clinical sites (Simpkin, 1996a).a
                                      Use Factor    Apply to                        
                            Barrier                                                 
                                       (U)b      Workload Distribution              
                        Floor          0.89  Rad Room (floor or other barriers)     
                        Cross-table wall 0.09 Rad Room (floor or other barriers)    
                        Wall No. 3c    0.02  Rad Room (floor or other barriers)     
                        Chest image receptor 1.00 Rad Room (chest bucky)            
                         aNote that the Rad Room (all barriers) workload distribution is not listed in
                        this Table because it is only used for secondary barrier calculations.
                         bThe values for U represent the fraction of the workload from the particular
                        distribution that is directed at individual barriers.       
                         cWall No. 3 is an unspecified wall other than the cross-table wall or the wall
                        holding the upright image receptor (chest bucky).           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    