                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    48 / 4. COMPUTATION OF SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS                   
                                                                                    
                    Table B.1 in Appendix B. That is, the air kerma due to the workload
                    in each kVp interval of the workload distribution is transmitted
                    through the barrier of thickness x with a transmission factor   
                                          barrier                                   
                    e–ax barrier, and summed to get the total transmitted air kerma due to
                    leakage radiation.                                              
                    4.1.7.2 Scattered Radiation. The magnitude of the air kerma due 
                    to scattered radiation is a function of the scattering angle, the
                    number and energy of primary photons incident on the patient,   
                    location of the beam on the patient, and the size and shape of the
                    patient. It is assumed that scattered radiation intensity is propor-
                    tional to the primary beam area at a distance from the focal spot.
                    These parameters are conveniently taken as the image-receptor   
                    area and the source-to-image-receptor distance (SID), respectively.
                    The scatter fraction (a ) is defined as the ratio of the scattered air
                                  1                                                 
                    kerma 1 m from the center of the primary beam area at the patient
                    to the primary air kerma 1 m from the x-ray tube for a given    
                    primary beam area. The air kerma for scattered radiation is     
                    assumed to scale linearly with primary field area. This reference
                    field size is conveniently taken as the image-receptor area at the
                    SID.                                                            
                    4.1.7.3 Total Contribution from Secondary Radiation. Table 4.7  
                    gives values for unshielded leakage, scattered and total secondary
                    air kermas (the latter being                                    
                                      Κ1                                            
                                         ) calculated for theclinical work-         
                                        sec                                         
                    load distributions for the case where the leakage and scattered air
                    kerma distances are both 1 m. The assumed values of the primary 
                    beam area (F) at the primary distance (d ) in meters and the total
                                              F                                     
                    workload per patient (W ) used to obtain the values of scattered
                                    norm                                            
                    air kerma (i.e., for side-scattered and forward/backscattered radia-
                    tions), are also given in Table 4.7.                            
                      The air kerma from unshielded secondary radiation [K (0)] at  
                                                         sec                        
                    a distance d for N patients is:                                 
                            sec                                                     
                                          1                                         
                                         K N                                        
                                   K (0) = -----s-e--c--------. (4.4)               
                                    sec   2                                         
                                         d                                          
                                          sec                                       
                      Strictly speaking, this simplified expression is only correct 
                    when d and d , the distances relevant for leakage and scattered 
                         L    S                                                     
                    radiation, respectively, are equal. Using the shorter of these two
                    distances for d is one acceptable solution. Other acceptable    
                              sec                                                   
                    choices are discussed in Sections 5.3 and 5.4 as typical cases are
                    discussed.                                                      