                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        4.1 CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY / 39           
                                                                                    
                      patients imaged in the x-ray room and correcting by the inverse
                      square of the distance yields the unshielded air kerma in the occu-
                      pied area. By determining the radiation transmission through a
                      given barrier material for this specific workload distribution, the
                      thickness of the barrier that reduces the unshielded air kerma to
                      the desired value of P/T can be determined. This Section and infor-
                      mation contained in the appendices contain the data necessary to
                      perform these calculations.                                   
                        Table 4.3 lists the typical number of patients for various types
                      of medical x-ray imaging facilities including hospitals and clinics
                      with different patient volume levels. These values may be     
                      employed if more accurate information on the number of patients
                      is not available. The qualified expert needs to keep in mind, how-
                      ever, that the per patient values of W shown in Table 4.3 could
                                              norm                                  
                      change in the future or they may currently be different for the site
                      being considered. For example, newer modalities such as digital
                      radiography and digital mammography may use techniques that   
                      could result in values of W different from those listed. In these
                                        norm                                        
                      cases, use of a modifying factor given by W /W is required,   
                                                   site norm                        
                      where W is the total workload per patient at the installation 
                            site                                                    
                      under consideration. Equation 4.1 may then be modified as follows:
                                         W                                          
                                     W = -------s--i-t-e---N W . (4.2)              
                                      tot W   norm                                  
                                          norm                                      
                        The following discussions in this Report will utilize       
                      Equation4.1 and the values in Table 4.3. However, adjustments to
                      W   shall be made by the qualified expert when appropriate.   
                        norm                                                        
                      4.1.5 Use Factor                                              
                        The use factor (U) is the fraction of the primary beam workload
                      that is directed toward a given primary barrier. The value of U will
                      depend on the type of radiation installation and the barrier of con-
                      cern. In radiographic and R&F rooms, the equipment is arranged
                      to allow many different beam orientations, so that different barri-
                      ers may have different use factors. For example, the workload rep-
                      resented by the Rad Room (chest bucky) distribution is directed
                      entirely toward the wall-mounted chest bucky. Therefore U = 1 for
                      the area of the wall behind that image receptor and the Rad Room
                      (chest bucky) workload distribution contributes only secondary
                      radiation to all other barriers in the room. These other barriers,
                      which include the floor, door(s), and walls (except the wall on which
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    