                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    42 / 4. COMPUTATION OF SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      Fig. 4.3. A typical medical imaging x-ray room layout. For the
                    indicated tube orientation, the individual in Area 1 would need to be
                    shielded from the primary beam, with the distance from the x-ray source
                    to the shielded area equal to d . The person in Area 2 would need to be
                                      P                                             
                    shielded from scattered and leakage radiations, with the indicated
                    scattered radiation distance d and leakage radiation distance d . The
                                      S                    L                        
                    primary x-ray beam has area F at distance d . It is assumed that
                                                 F                                  
                    individuals in occupied areas reside 0.3 m beyond barrier walls, 1.7 m
                    above the floor below, and 0.5 m above occupied floor levels in rooms above
                    the imaging room. These distances are displayed in Figure 4.4   
                    (Section4.2.4).                                                 
                      Since the image intensifier in general fluoroscopy, cardiac and
                    peripheral angiography, and the breast support tray in mammog-  
                    raphy are required by regulation to act as primary beam stops   
                    (FDA, 2003c) these rooms do not normally contain primary        
                    barriers.                                                       
                    4.1.6.1 Unshielded Primary Air Kerma. Table 4.5 shows the total 
                    workload per patient (W ) as well as the unshielded primary air 
                                   norm                                             
                    kerma per patient at 1 m (K1 ) for each of the workload distribu-
                                       P                                            
                    tions. The weekly unshielded primary air kerma [K (0)] in the occu-
                                                    P                               
                    pied area due to N patients examined per week in the room is:   
                                         1                                          
                                        K U N                                       
                                   K (0) = -----P--------------, (4.3)              
                                    P     2                                         
                                         d                                          
                                          P                                         