                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    94 / 5. EXAMPLES OF SHIELDING CALCULATIONS                      
                                                                                    
                       3. solid-core wooden doors (e.g., American Woodwork Insti-   
                         tute Type PC5, 43 mm thick doors) leading to corridors     
                         outside a mammographic room may provide adequate           
                         shielding. However, standard wooden doors may not be       
                         sufficient if the shielded area has significant occupancy. 
                         The adequacy of a standard thickness, solid-core wooden    
                         door should be demonstrated by the qualified expert;       
                       4. standard concrete construction provides adequate barriers 
                         above and below mammographic facilities; and               
                       5. lead-lined walls and doors are usually not required.      
                               5.6 Computed Tomography                              
                      Modern computed tomography (CT) scanners consist of a rotat-  
                    ing x-ray tube that generates a fan beam of x rays collimated to a
                    nominal width of T (centimeters) along the axis of rotation. X-ray
                                b                                                   
                    tube potentials of 120 to 140 kVp are typically employed and pro-
                    duce relatively high levels of scattered radiation that may require
                    significant shielding. During CT operation in a helical scan mode,
                    the patient is positioned on the CT table and continuously moved
                    along the axis of rotation with velocity v. The radiation beam traces
                    out a helix on the surface of a cylindrical phantom (helical or spiral
                    scanner) and the x-ray tube rotation time (τ) is on the order of 1 s
                    or less per 360 degrees. If the patient translation per gantry rota-
                    tion b = vτ is greater than the nominal beam width T , the pitch (p)
                                                     b                              
                    of the sequence (p = b/T ) is greater than unity. In a “multi-slice”
                                    b                                               
                    scanner, multiple detector rings along the axis of rotation may be
                    used to collect several image sections per rotation that are thinner
                    than the nominal collimated beam width (McCollough and Zink,    
                    1999). For a single-slice acquisition scanner, the nominal beam 
                    width (reconstructed slice thickness) is usually variable over the
                    range of 1 to 10 mm. For a “multi-slice” or “multiple-row detector”11
                    scanner, the nominal beam width may be 40 mm or more and        
                    include n reconstructed slices. In each case, the total beam width
                    determines the amount of scattered radiation per rotation.      
                      The standard CT dosimetry phantoms (FDA, 2003d; Shope         
                    etal., 1981) are assumed in this Report to reasonably represent a
                    head and body, insofar as scattered radiation from a patient is 
                    concerned. These phantoms are 16 and 32 cm diameter acrylic     
                    cylinders for the head and body, respectively, with a length of 
                    approximately 15 cm.                                            
                      11In the literature, the reader may find multiple-row detector scan-
                    ners identified as “MDCT” scanners.                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    