                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      5.   Examples       of  Shielding                             
                                                                                    
                           Calculations                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                        This Section demonstrates how the theoretical information and
                      data contained in this Report may be used to determine the mini-
                      mum barrier thickness required to shield different types of medical
                      x-ray imaging rooms. However, it is important to stress that these
                      examples and the methodology used are not intended to represent
                      the only techniques and assumptions capable of providing accept-
                      able radiation protection. Alternate methods may prove equally
                      satisfactory. The professional judgement of the qualified expert is
                      required in each design specification to ensure that the necessary
                      degree of radiation protection is achieved as effectively and eco-
                      nomically as possible.                                        
                        The final assessment of the adequacy of the design and con- 
                      struction of structural shielding is based on the radiation survey of
                      the completed installation as described in Section 6 of this Report.
                      To ensure that the appropriate shielding design goals for controlled
                      and uncontrolled areas are not exceeded, direct measurements are
                      recommended. If the assessment survey shows deficiencies, addi-
                      tional shielding or modification of equipment and procedures are
                      required. To avoid such deficiencies, the qualified expert needs to
                      consider the ALARA principal and use a conservatively safe    
                      approach in specifying radiation barriers. The cost of adding shield-
                      ing to an existing facility is many times greater than increasing it
                      in the initial phase of construction.                         
                        Table 5.1 provides a summary of the resources in this Report
                      that are included to assist the qualified expert in specifying shield-
                      ing requirements. For completeness and as an instructional tool,
                      many of these examples contain more than one method of deter- 
                      mining one particular barrier requirement. Figures 4.5, 4.6, 4.7
                      and 4.8, for example, provide a simplified method of finding the
                      required thickness of each barrier in radiographic and R&F rooms.
                      As shown in the examples, similar results for these barriers can be
                      obtained using the figures in Appendices B and C with conven- 
                      tional computational methods. These computational methods are 
                      also employed for cardiac and peripheral angiography, and mam-
                      mography rooms. Finally, the data and information contained in
                                           69                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    