                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        4.1 CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY / 43           
                                                                                    
                        TABLE 4.5—Unshielded primary air kerma per patient [K1      
                                                         P                          
                                                          (inmGy                    
                        patient–1)] for the indicated workload [W (mAminpatient–1)] and
                                               norm                                 
                        workload distribution, normalized to primary beam distance d =1m.
                                                           P                        
                                             W            K1                        
                         Workload Distributiona norm       P                        
                                         (mA min patient–1)b,c (mGy patient–1)d     
                       Rad Room (chest bucky) 0.6         2.3                       
                       Rad Room (floor or other 1.9       5.2                       
                       barriers)                                                    
                       Rad Tube (R&F Room)    1.5         5.9                       
                       Chest Room             0.22        1.2                       
                        aThe workload distributions are those surveyed by AAPM TG9 (Simpkin,
                       1996a), given in Table 4.2.                                  
                        bAs discussed in Section 4.1.4, values of W given in this Table can be mod-
                                              norm                                  
                       ified by use of a multiplier term W /W if necessary to allow for different
                                         site norm                                  
                       workloads per patient at a particular site.                  
                        cFor the indicated clinical installations, W is the average workload per
                                               norm                                 
                       patient.                                                     
                        dThese values for primary air kerma ignore the attenuation available in the
                       radiographic table and image receptor.                       
                      where d is the distance (in meters) from the x-ray tube to the occu-
                            P                                                       
                      pied area.                                                    
                      4.1.6.2 Preshielding. For primary barrier shielding calculations, it
                      has been traditionally assumed that the unattenuated primary  
                      beam is incident on the floor or walls that constitute primary bar-
                      riers. In fact, the primary beam intensity is substantially reduced
                      due to attenuation by the patient, the image receptor, and the
                      structures supporting the image receptor. The primary beam is not,
                      however, always totally intercepted by the patient since part of it
                      may fall off the patient and impinge directly on the grid or cassette
                      for some projections and patients. The area in which this occurs
                      will, however, be spatially averaged over the primary beam area
                      when the total patient population is considered. Thus, shielding
                      provided by the patient remains a significant factor. Often, a suit-
                      ably safe approach is to ignore the significant attenuation provided
                      by the patient, and consider only attenuation by the imaging hard-
                      ware in the x-ray beam. Dixon (1994) and Dixon and Simpkin    
                      (1998) have shown that for properly collimated primary beams, the
                      x-ray film cassettes, grids, radiographic tables, and wall-mounted
                                                                                    
                                                                                    