                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         b. Any equipment failure, accident, error, mishap or other un-
                            usual event or condition occurs that has the potential for
                                                                                  
                            causing a quantity to exceed any relevant limit or operating
                                                                                  
                            restriction;                                          
                                                                                  
                         c. The security of the radiation sources could be jeopardized
                                                                                  
                            by an unusual event or failures of protective measures and
                                                                                  
                            arrangements implemented to guarantee the security of ra-
                            diation sources as provided in Regulation on Security of Ra-
                                                                                  
                            dioactive Materials (NRRC-R-17).                      
                                                                                  
                  89. The authorized person shall conduct an investigation immediately af-
                                                                                  
                     ter an event and shall prepare a written record of its causes, or sus-
                                                                                  
                     pected causes, including verification or determination of any doses,
                     received or committed and recommendations for preventing the re-
                                                                                  
                     currence of the event and the occurrence of similar events.  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  90. The authorized person shall communicate to the NRRC a written re-
                     port of any formal investigation relating to events as prescribed by the
                                                                                  
                     NRRC, including exposures giving rise to doses exceeding a dose limit.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  91. The authorized person shall immediately report to the NRRC any
                     event in which a dose limit is exceeded.                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Section 30: Regulatory Inspection of Facility                   
                                                                                  
                  92. The authorized person shall permit access by authorized representatives
                                                                                  
                     of the NRRC to carry out inspections of their facilities and activities and
                     of their protection and safety records, and shall cooperate in the conduct
                                                                                  
                     of inspections.                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       65         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  