                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  NRRC-R-01                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                          derstandable to users, on the proper installation and use of
                          the radiation source and on its associated radiation risks,
                                                                                  
                          including performance specifications, instructions for oper-
                                                                                  
                          ating and maintenance, and instructions for protection and
                          safety.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                       d. Ensured that the protection provided by shielding and by
                                                                                  
                          other protective devices is optimized.                  
                                                                                  
                245. The authorized person shall ensure that supplied radioactive source
                                                                                  
                   and a radiation appliance containing a radioactive source including
                                                                                  
                   the source itself is marked as “Radioactive”, where technically possible,
                   and the radiation appliance is equipped with the symbol indicating
                                                                                  
                   radiation hazard in accordance with the national requirements. 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                246. The authorized person shall ensure that the authorized sealed sources
                                                                                  
                   are identifiable and traceable.                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Section 88: The commitment of a Supplier for Accepting the Return 
                                                                                  
                of a Disused Sealed Source                                        
                                                                                  
                247. Prior to the acquisition of radioactive sources, the authorized person
                                                                                  
                   shall arrange for and require a written commitment of the supplier for
                   the return of the source once it becomes disused. The commitment of
                                                                                  
                   the supplier shall specify:                                    
                                                                                  
                      a. The assurance to take the disused source within a specified
                                                                                  
                          time period;                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      b. The arrangements for transport and associated conditioning
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                122                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  