                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  NRRC-R-01                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                       a. Relevant dose limits for occupational exposure are not ex-
                          ceeded;                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                       b. Protection and safety is optimized in accordance with the
                                                                                  
                          requirements of this regulation;                        
                                                                                  
                123. The authorized person shall ensure that workers exposed to radia-
                                                                                  
                   tion from sources within a practice that is not required by or directly
                   related to their work have the same level of protection against such
                                                                                  
                   exposure as members of the public.                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                124. Nothing in this Regulation shall be construed as relieving the autho-
                                                                                  
                   rized person from complying with applicable national and local laws
                   and regulations governing hazards in the workplace.            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                125. The authorized person shall ensure compliance by workers with the
                   requirements prescribed in this regulation.                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                126. The authorized person shall minimize the need to rely on adminis-
                                                                                  
                   trative controls and personal protective equipment for protection and
                   safety by providing well-engineered controls and satisfactory working
                                                                                  
                   conditions.                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                127. The authorized person shall ensure protection and safety in accor-
                   dance with the following hierarchy of preventive measures:     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                       a. Engineered controls;                                    
                                                                                  
                      b. Administrative controls;                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                       c. Personal protective equipment.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 76                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  