                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                            amination, as well as those resulting from any special assess-
                            ments.                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         c. Maintain medical records during and after the worker’s work-
                                                                                  
                            ing life, at least until the former worker attains or would have
                            attained the age of 75 years, and for not less than 30 years
                                                                                  
                            after cessation of the work in which the worker was subject
                                                                                  
                            to occupational exposure.                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Section 56: Special Health Surveillance                         
                                                                                  
                  167. The authorized person shall ensure that special health surveillance is
                                                                                  
                     performed in each case where any of the dose limits for occupational
                                                                                  
                     exposure has been exceeded.                                  
                                                                                  
                  168. In the case referred to in above Section 55, the physician responsible
                                                                                  
                     for workers’ health surveillance shall decide on:            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         a. Necessary action for the health protection of the exposed
                            individual, such as further examinations, decontamination,
                                                                                  
                            urgent treatment or other action identified by it;    
                                                                                  
                         b. Subsequent exposure conditions in which the worker can
                                                                                  
                            continue to work.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  169. The authorized person shall ensure that recommendations raised by
                                                                                  
                     the physician responsible for workers’ health surveillance are properly
                     implemented.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       91         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  