                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         b. The effective dose expected to be incurred by any individual
                            for low probability scenarios does not exceed 1 mSv in a year
                                                                                  
                            or as specified by the NRRC.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         c. For radionuclides of natural origin in residues that might
                            be recycled into construction materials, or the disposal of
                                                                                  
                            which is liable to cause the contamination of drinking water
                                                                                  
                            supplies, the activity concentration in the residues does not
                            exceed specific values derived so as to meet a dose criterion
                                                                                  
                            of the order of 1 mSv in a year or as specified by the NRRC.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  68. The deliberate dilution of radioactive materials for the purpose of
                     them being released from regulatory control is prohibited.   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Chapter 5: Requirements for the Management of Protection and    
                                                                                  
                  Safety                                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Section 24: Prime Responsibility for Protection and Safety      
                                                                                  
                  69. The authorized person shall retain the prime responsibility for pro-
                                                                                  
                     tection and safety throughout the lifetime of the practice, and this
                     responsibility cannot be delegated.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  70. The responsibilities of the authorized person are not diminished by
                                                                                  
                     the appointment of a radiation safety officer, or by the use of qualified
                      experts or technical support organization.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  71. The authorized person shall ensure that any delegation of responsibly
                                                                                  
                     for the implementation of this regulation is documented.     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       61         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  