                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  24. For public exposure, the dose limits shall be:              
                                                                                  
                         a. An effective dose of 1 mSv in a year;                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         b. In special circumstances, a higher value of effective dose in
                            a single year could apply, provided that the average effective
                                                                                  
                            dose over five consecutive years does not exceed 1 mSv per
                                                                                  
                            year;                                                 
                                                                                  
                         c. An equivalent dose to the lens of the eye of 15 mSv in a year;
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         d. An equivalent dose to the skin of 50 mSv in a year.   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  25. The verification of compliance with the dose limit shall consider the
                     criteria, conversion factors and other references values specified by
                                                                                  
                     the NRRC which allow to get the best estimation of the quantities
                                                                                  
                     used for controlling the dose limits.                        
                                                                                  
                  26. Whenever the NRRC deems necessary to revise the established dose
                                                                                  
                     limits the authorized person shall implement all the necessary correc-
                                                                                  
                     tive actions to ensure compliance with the revised dose adopted limits.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Chapter 3: Responsibilities for Protection and Safety           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Section 11: General Responsibilities                            
                                                                                  
                  27. The authorized person or any responsible person for the activity or
                                                                                  
                      at the facility, shall have the prime responsibility for protection and
                                                                                  
                      safety, which cannot be delegated.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       47         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  