                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  NRRC-R-01                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                       b. Regulatory control of the practice or the source would yield
                          no net benefit, in that no reasonable measures for regulatory
                                                                                  
                          control would achieve a worthwhile return in terms of reduc-
                                                                                  
                          tion of individual doses or of health risks.            
                                                                                  
                55. The NRRC may exempt a practice or a source within a practice from
                                                                                  
                   any requirement of this regulation provided that:              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      a. The effective dose expected to be incurred by any individual
                          is of the order of 10 Sv or less in a year or as specified by
                                                                                  
                          NRRC; and                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      b. The effective dose expected to be incurred by any individual
                          for low probability scenarios does not exceed 1 mSv in a year
                                                                                  
                          or as specified by the NRRC.                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                56. The authorized person shall meet the specific conditions defined by
                   the NRRC when approving an exemption.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                57. The NRRC has the right to cancel and withdraw the decision if the
                                                                                  
                   prerequisites for exemption are not met or if the conditions for ex-
                                                                                  
                   emption have not been complied with and the deficiencies are not
                   remedied within a prescribed period of time despite a request to do so.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Section 21: Requirements for Authorization                        
                                                                                  
                58. Except for the conditions as provided in Section 19 of this Regulation,
                                                                                  
                   the person or entity responsible for facilities or activities which has
                                                                                  
                   plans to implement any practice that results in an exposure due to a
                   source shall file, prior to proceeding with the practice or acquisition
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 58                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  