                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  NRRC-R-01                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                          occur;                                                  
                                                                                  
                       c. Dose constraints for occupational and public exposure.  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                16. For occupational exposure and public exposure, the authorized per-
                                                                                  
                   son and any other responsible person shall ensure that the magnitude
                   of individual doses, the likelihood of exposure and the number of
                                                                                  
                   individuals exposed are kept as low as reasonably achievable, taking
                                                                                  
                   economic and societal factors into account.                    
                                                                                  
                17. For the protection of individuals subject to medical exposure, the au-
                                                                                  
                   thorized person and any other responsible person shall ensure that
                                                                                  
                   medical exposure is limited to what is necessary to achieve the intend-
                                                                                  
                   ed examination or treatment result and performance of the procedure.
                                                                                  
                18. Measures for the optimization of the protection and safety shall be
                                                                                  
                   re-evaluated, by the authorized person on a periodical and timely ba-
                                                                                  
                   sis or at any time deem necessary as determine by the NRRC.    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Section 8: Dose Constraints                                       
                                                                                  
               19. The authorized person shall establish dose constraints, as appropriate
                                                                                  
                   according to the category of exposure individuals to be approved by
                                                                                  
                   the NRRC for the following types of exposure:                  
                                                                                  
                       a. Occupational and public exposures - Where relevant, the 
                                                                                  
                          doses constraints shall be established in co-operation with
                                                                                  
                          the employer of the outside worker.                     
                                                                                  
                       b. Medical exposure - Dose constraints shall apply only with
                                                                                  
                          regard to the protection of carers and comforters and volun-
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 44                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  