                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                            teers participating in medical or biomedical research.
                                                                                  
                  20. The authorized person shall ensure that the dose constraints are:
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         a. Established in terms of individual effective or equivalent dos-
                                                                                  
                            es over a defined appropriate time period.            
                                                                                  
                         b. Remained below the generic values defined by the NRRC for
                                                                                  
                            similar types of practices.                           
                                                                                  
                         c. Established so that the prospective annual doses to members
                                                                                  
                            of the public, including people distant from the source and
                                                                                  
                            people of future generations, summed over all exposure path-
                            ways, including contributions by other practices and sources,
                                                                                  
                            are unlikely to exceed the dose limits for the public or any
                                                                                  
                            lower values established by the NRRC for any source that can
                            release radioactive material to the environment.      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Section 9: Reference Levels                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  21. Any person that are involved in any activity concerning emergency or
                      existing exposure situations shall use the relevant References Levels,
                                                                                  
                      established by the NRRC, as a boundary condition in identifying the
                                                                                  
                     range of options for optimization in implementing protective actions.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                  Section 10: Dose Limits                                         
                                                                                  
                  22. In planned exposure situations, the authorized person shall ensure
                                                                                  
                     that the exposures of individuals due to the activities and practices for
                     which they are authorized are restricted so that the following relevant
                                                                                  
                      dose limits:                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       45         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  