                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
               If the patient could be breast-feeding an infant or child after release, and if the patient was
          administered a radiopharmaceutical with an activity above the value stated in Column 1 of Table 3,
          instructions on discontinuation or on the interruption period for breast-feeding and the consequences of
          failing to follow the recommendation must be provided. The patient should also be informed if there
          would be no consequences to the breast-feeding infant or child. Table 3 also provides recommendations
          for interrupting or discontinuing breastfeeding to minimize the dose to below 1 millisievert (0.1 rem) if
          the patient has received certain radiopharmaceutical doses. The radiopharmaceuticals listed in Table 3
          are commonly used in medical diagnosis and treatment.                     
               If a radiopharmaceutical not listed in Table 3 is administered to a patient who could be breast-
          feeding, the licensee should evaluate whether instructions or records (or both) are required. If
          information on the excretion of the radiopharmaceutical is not available, an acceptable method is to
          assume that 50 percent of the administered activity is excreted in the breast milk (Ref. 2). The dose to the
          infant or child can be calculated by using the dose conversion factors given for a newborn infant by
          Stabin (Ref. 3).                                                          
                                                                                    
          2.3  Content of Instructions                                              
                                                                                    
               The instructions should be specific to the type of treatment given, such as permanent implants or
          radioiodine for hyperthyroidism or thyroid carcinoma, and they may include additional information for
          individual situations. However, the instructions should not interfere with or contradict the best medical
          judgment of physicians. The instructions may include the name of a knowledgeable person to contact and
          that person’s telephone number in case the patient has any questions.     
                                                                                    
               Additional instructions appropriate for each modality, as shown in examples below, may be
          provided.                                                                 
                                                                                    
          2.3.1 Instructions Regarding Radiopharmaceutical Administrations          
                                                                                    
               For procedures involving radiopharmaceuticals, additional instructions may include the
          following.                                                                
                                                                                    
           •    Maintaining distance from other persons, including separate sleeping arrangements.
                Minimizing time in public places (e.g., public transportation, grocery stores, shopping centers,
                theaters, restaurants, sporting events).                            
                                                                                    
           •    Precautions to reduce the spread of radioactive contamination.      
                                                                                    
           •    The length of time each of the precautions should be in effect.     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     RG-8.39, Page 7                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    