                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
               An occupancy factor of 0.25 at 1 meter is not considered appropriate when the physical half-life
          is less than or equal to 1 day, and hence, the dose is delivered over a short time. Specifically, the
          assumptions regarding patient behavior that led to an occupancy factor of 0.25 at 1 meter include the
          assumption that the patient will not be in close proximity to other individuals for several days. However,
          when the dose is from a short-lived radionuclide, the time that individuals spend in close proximity to the
          patient immediately following release will be most significant because the dose to other individuals could
          be a large fraction of the total dose from the short-lived radionuclide. Thus, to be conservative when
          providing generally applicable release quantities that may be used with little consideration of the specific
          details of a particular patient’s release, the values calculated in Table I were based on an occupancy factor
          of 1 at 1 meter when the half-life is less than or equal to 1 day.        
          B-1.2 Occupancy Factors To Consider for Patient-Specific Calculations     
                                                                                    
               The selection of an occupancy factor for patient-specific calculations will depend on whether the
          physical or effective half-life of the radionuclide is used and whether instructions are provided to the
          patient before release. The following occupancy factors, E, at 1 meter, may be used for patient-specific
          calculations.                                                             
                                                                                    
          •    E = 0.75 when a physical half-life, an effective half-life, or a specific time period under
               consideration (e.g., bladder holding time) is less than or equal to 1 day.
                                                                                    
          •    E = 0.25 when an effective half-life is greater than 1 day if the patient has been given instructions,
               such as,                                                             
                                                                                    
               -    Maintain a prudent distance from others for at least the first 2 days,
                                                                                    
               -    Sleep alone in a room for at least the first night, Do not travel by airplane or mass
                    transportation for at least the first day,                      
                                                                                    
               -    Do not travel on a prolonged automobile trip with others for at least the first 2 days,
               -    Have sole use of a bathroom for at least the first 2 days,      
                                                                                    
               -    Drink plenty of fluids for at least the first 2 days.           
                                                                                    
          •    E = 0.125 when an effective half-life is greater than 1 day if the patient has been given
               instructions, such as,                                               
                                                                                    
               -    Follow the instructions for E = 0.25 above,                     
               -    Live alone for at least the first 2 days,                       
               -    Have few visits by family or friends for at least the first 2 days.
                                                                                    
          •    In a two-component model (e.g., uptake of iodine-131 using thyroidal and extrathyroidal
               components), if the effective half-life associated with one component is less than or equal to one
               day but is greater than one day for the other component, it is more justifiable to use the
               occupancy factor associated with the dominant component for both components.
                                                                                    
               Example 1: Calculate the maximum likely dose to an individual exposed to a patient who has
          received 2,220 megabecquerels (60 millicuries) of iodine-131. The patient has been provided with
          instructions to maintain a prudent distance from others for at least 2 days, lives alone, drives home alone,
          and stays at home for several days without visitors.                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                Appendix B to RG-8.39, Page B-2                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    