                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
               If a radionuclide not listed in Table 1 is administered and the licensee chooses to release a patient
          based on the measured dose rate, the licensee should first calculate a dose rate that corresponds to the
          5 millisievert (0.5-rem) dose limit. If the measured dose rate at 1 meter is no greater than the calculated
          dose rate, the patient may be released. A record of the release is required by 10-CFR 35.75(c). The dose
          rate at 1 meter may be calculated from Equation 2 or 3, as appropriate, because the dose rate at 1 meter is
          equal to ΓQ/10,000 cm2.                                                   
          1.3  Release of Patients Based on Patient-Specific Dose Calculations      
                                                                                    
               Licensees may release patients based on dose calculations using patient-specific parameters.
          With this method, based on 10 CFR 35.75(a), the licensee must calculate the maximum likely dose to an
          individual exposed to the patient on a case-by-case basis. If the calculated maximum likely dose to an
          individual is no greater than 5 millisieverts (0.5 rem), the patient may be released. Using this method,
          licensees may be able to release patients with activities greater than those listed in Column 1 of Table 1
          by taking into account the effective half-life of the radioactive material and other factors that may be
          relevant to the particular case. If the dose calculation considered retained activity, an occupancy factor
          less than 0.25 at 1 meter, effective half-life, or shielding by tissue, a record of the basis for the release is
          required by 10 CFR 35.75(c).                                              
                                                                                    
               Appendix B contains procedures for performing patient-specific dose calculations, and it
          describes how various factors may be considered in the calculations.      
                                                                                    
          2.   Instructions                                                         
                                                                                    
          2.1  Activities and Dose Rates Requiring Instructions                     
                                                                                    
               Based on 10 CFR 35.75(b), for some administrations the released patients must be given
          instructions, including written instructions, on how to maintain doses to other individuals as low as is
          reasonably achievable after the patients are released.1 Licensees may use Column 1 of Table 2 to
          determine the activity above which instructions must be given to patients. Column 2 provides
          corresponding dose rates at 1 meter, based on the activities in Column 1. If the patient is breast-feeding
          an infant or child, additional instructions may be necessary (see Regulatory Position 2.2, “Additional
          Instructions for Release of Patients Who Could be Breast-Feeding After Release”).
               The activities or dose rates in Table 2 may be used for determining when instructions must be
          given. When patient-specific calculations (as described in Appendix B) are used, instructions must be
          provided if the calculation indicates a dose that is greater than 1 millisievert (0.1 rem).
                                                                                    
               If a radionuclide not listed in Table 2 is administered, the licensee may calculate the activity or
          dose rate that corresponds to 1 millisievert (0.1 rem). Equation 2 or 3, as appropriate, may be used.
                                                                                    
          2.2  Additional Instructions for Release of Patients Who Could be Breast-Feeding After Release
                                                                                    
               The requirement in 10 CFR 35.75(b) that a licensee provide instructions on the discontinuation or
          the interruption period of breast-feeding, and the consequences of failing to follow the recommendation,
          presumes that the licensee will inquire, as appropriate, regarding the breast-feeding status of the patient.1
          The purpose of the instructions (e.g., on interruption or discontinuation) is to permit licensees to release a
          patient who could be breast-feeding an infant or child when the dose to the infant or child could exceed
          5 millisieverts (0.5 rem) if there is no interruption of breast-feeding.  
                                                                                    
          1    The NRC does not intend to enforce patient compliance with the instructions nor is it the licensee’s responsibility to do
               so.                                                                  
                                                                                    
                                     RG-8.39, Page 6                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    