                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                            C.  REGULATORY    POSITION                              
                                                                                    
          1.   Release Criteria                                                     
                                                                                    
               Licensees should use one of the following options to release a patient who has been administered
          radiopharmaceuticals or permanent implants containing radioactive material in accordance with
          regulatory requirements.                                                  
                                                                                    
          1.1  Release of Patients Based on Administered Activity                   
                                                                                    
               In compliance with the dose limit in 10 CFR 35.75(a), licensees may release patients from
          licensee control if the activity administered is no greater than the activity in Column 1 of Table 1. The
          activities in Table 1 are based on a total effective dose equivalent of 5 millisieverts (0.5 rem) to an
          individual using conservative assumptions of (1) administered activity, (2) physical half-life,
          (3) occupancy factor of 0.25 at 1 meter for physical half-lives greater than 1 day, and, for conservatism,
          an occupancy factor of 1 at 1 meter for physical half-lives less than or equal to 1 day, and (4) no shielding
          by tissue. The total effective dose equivalent is approximately equal to external dose because the internal
          dose is a small fraction of the external dose (see Section B.3, “Internal Dose,” of Appendix B). In this
          case, no record of the release of the patient is required unless the patient is breast-feeding an infant or
          child as discussed in Regulatory Position 3.2, “Records of Instructions for Breast-Feeding Patients.” The
          licensee may demonstrate compliance by using the records of activity that are already required by 10 CFR
          35.32 and 35.53.                                                          
               If the activity administered exceeds the activity in Column 1 of Table 1, the licensee may release
          the patient when the activity has decayed to the activity in Column 1 of Table 1. In this case, a record is
          required by 10 CFR 35.75(c) because the patient’s release is based on the retained activity rather than the
          administered activity. The activities in Column 1 of Table 1 were calculated using either Equation 2 or 3,
          depending on the physical half-life of the radionuclide.                  
                                                                                    
               If a radionuclide not listed in Table 1 is administered, the licensee can demonstrate compliance
          with the regulation by maintaining, for NRC inspection, a calculation of the release activity that
          corresponds to the dose limit of 5 millisieverts (0.5 rem). Equation 2 or 3 may be used, as appropriate, to
          calculate the activity Q corresponding to 5 millisieverts (0.5 rem).      
                                                                                    
               The release activities in Column 1 of Table 1 do not include consideration of the dose to a breast-
          feeding infant or child from ingestion of radiopharmaceuticals contained in a patient’s breast milk. When
          the patient is breast-feeding an infant or child, the activities in Column 1 of Table 1 are not applicable to
          the infant or child. In this case, it may be necessary to give instructions as described in Regulatory
          Positions 2.2 and 2.3 as a condition for release. If failure to interrupt or discontinue could result in a dose
          to the breast-feeding infant or child in excess of 5 millisieverts (0.5 rem), a record that instructions were
          provided is required by 10 CFR 35.75(d).                                  
                                                                                    
          1.2  Release of Patients Based on Measured Dose Rate                      
               Licensees may release patients to whom radionuclides have been administered in amounts greater
          than the activities listed in Column 1 of Table 1 provided the measured dose rate at I meter (from the
          surface of the patient) is no greater than the value in Column 2 of Table 1 for that radionuclide. In this
          case, however, 10 CFR 35.75(c) requires a record because the release is based on considering shielding
          by tissue.                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     RG-8.39, Page 4                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    