                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                             Chapter2
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                         1 : Specify shielding for scatter                           
                          component (to)                                             
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                          2:Calculate scatter transm lsslon at                       
                         position X (Kx,s)                                           
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                          3: Calculate primary transmission at                       
                         position X based full beam directed I I 6: Add lead (or concrete)
                          at barrier <Kxp)                equivalence of components to to
                                                                                     
                                                                     Yes             
                                                         I                           
                          4: Is total air kerma at X greater than 5: Additional attenuation In Detector.
                                                  Yes                                
                          dose constraint?              -1 Bucky assembly. etc?      
                         (Kx,P+ Kx,s) >(Del Wx)                                      
                                                                      No             
                                     No                                              
                                     '                ~   7: Any other mitigating factors?
                          No additional shielding required                           
                                                                     No              
                                                         I                           
                                                                     •               
                                                          Specify Increased shielding for
                                                          primary beam barrier       
                         Figure 2.5 Recommended method for specification of primary shielding for wall bucky in radiography.
                        2.4  Tertiary scatter from ceilings and walls                
                                                                                     
                        Although air kerma levels from tertiary scatter off solid ceiling slabs and walls are
                        only a few percent of those from direct exposure, they can become significant when
                        workloads are high. Protection against tertiary scatter will almost always need to be
                        provided for current multislice helical CT scanners and may need to be considered
                        for interventional suites with heavy workloads (see Figure 2.6). Dose levels are
                        strongly dependent on the height of the ceiling and that of the protective barrier. This
                        is illustrated by a plot of scatter level versus ceiling height for different barrier heights
                                                                                     
                        in interventional and CT scanner rooms (see Figure 2.7). A methodology employing
                        a linear equation has been developed to allow scatter levels to be estimated for
                        standard configurations representing a CT room with a scanner operating at 120 kV
                        and an interventional radiology or cardiology room with an average tube potential of
                        85 kV (Martin et al, 2012). The amount of radiation scattered from walls increases
                        substantially with tube potential, so choice of a higher tube potential represents a
                        conservative approach.                                       
                         The method employs an equation to derive tertiary scatter Scemns of the form:
                                                                                     
                                S .. =(C-mxb)xD                              (2.4)   
                                 rnhng                                               
                        20                                    Radiation Shielding for Diagnostic Radiology
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     