                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                 Melflods for primary and ucondary radiation                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                          Figure 2.6 How tertiary scatter from ceilings can contribute to staff dose.
                                                                                      
                   where b is the height of the barrier between the staff and X-ray equipment, D is
                  the relevant dose quantity and m and C are constants for a particular ceiling height.
                  The majority of the tertiary scatter contributing to personnel dose results from a 3 m
                                                                                      
                  wide strip of ceiling slab between the X-ray unit and the operator or other personnel.
                  Therefore, it is possible to use standard factors in the equation linked simply to the
                  ceiling height. Values of constants relating to a CT scanner room and an interventional
                  suite are given in Table 2.5. The factors have been derived so that they can be applied
                  directly to the patient dose quantities used for estimating scatter. For CT scanning,
                  this would be the DLP workload with half the OLP for the head being added to that
                  of the body, while for an interventional suite, this would be the KAP. Examples of the
                  application of the method are given in the relevant chapters.       
                   Tertiary scatter from a wall adjacent to an unshielded entrance to a control cubicle
                                                                                      
                  (Sw can also be significant. Doors will almost always be required for CT facilities
                     )                                                                
                    111                                                               
                  to protect against this, but protection may also need to be installed in the door of
                  an interventional suite. The magnitude of the scatter is related to the perpendicular
                  distance, d (measured in metres), between the patient/isocentre and the wall adjacent to
                  the entrance. Levels of tertiary scatter at the edge of a protected screen can be predicted
                  from the KAP in gray centimetres squared for an interventional suite using the equation:
                         S  =KA.Px 0 058e-O.S6d                       (2.5)           
                          wall    •                                                   
                   and from the OLP in gray centimetres for a CT suite from the equation:
                         S  =OLP x 6 6e4u6d                           (2.6)           
                          wall    •                                                   
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                  Radiation Shielding for Diagnostic Radiology           21           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      